# Build notes

## Prototype 2

Again printed by Nick, with the same parameters.  Left with Environment
Hamilton to test, and will add their feedback once I receive it.

* Clip is too flexible, because I messed up my math: deflection should be
  inversely proportional to the *cube* of the thickness, not linearly.  Clip
  manages to hold the AQM fairly well, and it can be enhanced with an elastic
  if needed, but it could be stiffer and a little tighter around the AQM.
* Handlebar mount had a serious failure when trying to attach to too-small
  handlebars.  Cranking the wing nut made it stay on, but it forced the screw
  to dig into the sides of its hole, preventing it from loosening.  Had to pry
  it apart with a claw hammer, which snapped the plastic through the hexagonal
  recess.  It's still maybe usable, but it was a bad thing to happen.


## Prototype 1

Kindly printed by Nick, with 30% fill in a crosshatch pattern.  Thoughts:

* Clip is definitely not flexible enough.  Can open by approximately 10 mm
  across both sides of the clip, but needs to open by ~40 mm to get in the
  monitor.  Might need just 20 mm, but it's hard to tell without having the AQM
  on hand.
* The handlebar mount doesn't really work for my bike.  The double-bent shape
  of the handlebars doesn't leave enough width for the clip.
* On top of that, the handlebar mount works great for 25 mm diameter bars (ISO
  standard), but does not grip on anything smaller, and does not fit on anything
  larger.
* The bottle hole mount indented base is way too steep; on my bike, it nestles
  right in the bottom radius.  That's embarrassing, since I should have checked
  that better before I completed it.
* Fasteners are a problem in that my local Canadian Tire only carries one of
  the several that I need.  Their M5 bolts only go as long as 30 mm, not the 60
  I need, and they don't have any M3 bolts, only going as small as M4.
* One more: the recess for the nut in the handlebar clip is too shallow to hold
  the nut permanently, making it susceptible to being lost.

Things I can do to improve these:

* First, thin the clip walls from 4 mm to 2.5; the area moment should decrease
  linearly, and deflection should be inversely proportional to that, bringing
  deflection to 16 mm.  For the rest, I'll open up the ends of the clip by
  another 20 mm (10 mm per side), giving a total of 36 mm, which is close
  enough, right?
* I'll lengthen it by about 3mm for now.  I'm not too concerned with my own
  bike, since I want to use the bottle hole mount anyways, but some extra space
  might be useful in the future.
* Not much can be done on the bar diameter without a serious clamp redesign.
  I think this will be good enough for standard handlebars for now, and I'll
  wait for feedback on where else people want to clamp it before I make another
  mount design.  But to make it slightly more flexible, I'll thin the clamp
  walls from 3.5mm to 2.5mm.
* You know what, that angled base idea was dumb anyways.  I'll change it to a
  flat base so it can be used with washers if available.  And I'll make the
  whole thing narrower since the width won't be supporting anything.
* I'll order a bunch of fasteners from McMaster-Carr instead of getting them
  from Canadian Tire.  More expensive, but I don't need many.  Also, I'll make
  the nut hole in the bottle hole mount deeper to support bolts down to 30mm.
* I'll make the ends of the handlebar clamp thicker so as to fully encase an M3
  nut.  This will require a slightly longer bolt; the README will be updated
  accordingly.
